Link: 
https://chatgpt.com/share/67dc269f-9a18-800a-9d7e-1fc2fc44fdee

Prompt:
You are given two SMILES strings for the same molecule. Atoms are numbered from left to right, with the first atom having index 0. Only heavy atoms are numbered and mapped.

Molecule 1: c1cc(ncc1Cl)Sc1cccc(c1C#N)F

Molecule 2: N#Cc1c(F)cccc1Sc1ccc(cn1)Cl

Determine the mapping of atoms from Molecule 1 to Molecule 2. Provide your answer as a list of tuples, where each tuple contains the atom index from Molecule 1 and its corresponding atom index from Molecule 2. Only write the answer. Do not write any comments.

Reasoning:
I need to identify only the heavy atoms in both molecules, following the left-to-right numbering rule. The molecules are described using SMILES strings which show two rings with different substituents, such as Cl, F, and C#N. I’ll carefully list the heavy atoms in order from left to right in each molecule, then match those atoms between the two molecules based on their positions. This requires careful analysis of the rings and branches, since the structure’s order needs to be preserved. Then, I’ll find the correct mapping.

I need to carefully number the heavy atoms in Molecule 1, parsing the SMILES left to right. Starting with the first ring, I label atoms sequentially, making sure to account for the ring closures. Atoms in the branches get numbered properly by following the parent atom before the branch, and I verify that ring closures follow the right indices. After dealing with the first ring and branch ("ncc1Cl"), the numbering continues with the main chain. I will finish labeling the remaining atoms step by step by continuing this process.

For Molecule 2, I'm numbering the heavy atoms. The string starts with "N#C," so the first two atoms are nitrogen (0) and carbon (1). Moving left to right, I encounter an aromatic ring starting with "c1"; this is the start of a new ring, making index 2 a "c". After that, "F" is attached to index 3, followed by four more carbons (indices 4 to 8), forming the second aromatic ring. The process continues with an "S" at index 9, then another ring system with substitutions at the end.

Looking at the two molecules, I see that they are essentially the same but with swapped substituents. In Molecule 1, the nitrile group (C#N) is attached to the second ring and the Cl to the first, while in Molecule 2, the nitrile group is on the first ring and the Cl on the second. Additionally, the F substituent also swaps places. Both molecules have the same connectivity, just flipped in terms of the positioning of functional groups. So, I’m noting that the two are isomers with the substituents swapped.

In Molecule 1, the first ring (Ring A) has Cl attached and is connected to S (marking the junction between two rings). The second ring (Ring B) has nitrile and F substituents. In Molecule 2, the nitrile group attaches to the first ring (Ring A) along with F at atom 4, while the second ring has Cl. Essentially, the positioning of substituents and the labeling of the rings are swapped between the molecules, though they retain very similar connectivity. S connects to atom 2 in both molecules.

In Molecule 1, the S atom connects Ring X at atom 2, forming the connection with Ring Y. For Molecule 2, segment A has a nitrile group and F substituent, while segment B includes a Cl substituent. After examining the connectivity, it turns out that the S atom attaches to atom 2 from Ring A in both molecules. This means in Molecule 1, Ring X corresponds to Ring A in Molecule 2, and similarly ring substituents must be reassigned within these pots.

In Molecule 1, the first benzene ring (Ring A) has Cl, and the second ring (Ring B) has nitrile and F. In Molecule 2, the first ring has nitrile and F, and the second ring has Cl. The S atom joins the rings in both molecules — in Molecule 1, it connects at Ring A (Cl ring) and in Molecule 2, it connects at Ring A (nitrile and F). So the nitrile-F ring in Molecule 1 corresponds to the nitrile-F ring in Molecule 2, and the Cl-laden rings swap places.

In Molecule 1, the Cl-bearing ring (Ring X) is on the first ring while in Molecule 2, it’s on the second ring. The S atom captures the two rings, with Molecule 1’s S linking the Cl and nitrile/F rings, while it’s the same for Molecule 2 but with reverse order of the rings. We identify the rings based on the substituents (Cl vs. nitrile-F). The molecular construction shows how the rings swap roles between Molecule 1 and Molecule 2. Thus, mapping involves matching the Cl and nitrile/F rings while accounting for symmetry in connectivity.

In Molecule 1, the first ring (Ring 1) has Cl at position M1-5, and S is connected to M1-2, forming a bond with the second ring (Ring 2), where F and nitrile are located at M1-16 and M1-13, respectively. In Molecule 2, the Cl ring (Ring B) is connected to S (M2-9) at M2-10, while the nitrile-F ring (Ring A) has the nitrile at M2-2 and F at M2-3. The mapping reveals symmetry breaking by substituents, ensuring atom mapping preserves connectivity. Substituent position mapping follows the ring's cycle and SMILES notation.

We need to map the rings and their substituents between Molecule 1 and Molecule 2 carefully, using the positioning of S, F, and nitrile groups. In Molecule 1, Ring 1 (with Cl) and Ring 2 (with F and nitrile) have specific relationships; S connects both in particular positions. For Molecule 2, similar assignments occur for Ring B (with Cl) and Ring A (with nitrile and F), while S still bridges both rings at corresponding positions. The goal is a consistent atom mapping that respects the relative positions in each molecule.

Answer:
[(0, 14), (1, 15), (2, 10), (3, 11), (4, 12), (5, 13), (6, 16), (7, 9), (8, 8), (9, 7), (10, 6), (11, 5), (12, 3), (13, 2), (14, 1), (15, 0), (16, 4)]